---
title: Get Started with the Solidity SDK
description: Follow this guide to use the Wormhole Solidity SDK's interfaces and tools to help you quickly build on-chain integrations using smart contracts.
categories: Solidity SDK
---

# Get Started with the Solidity SDK

:simple-github: [Repository on GitHub](https://github.com/wormhole-foundation/wormhole-solidity-sdk){target=\_blank}

The Wormhole Solidity SDK provides Solidity interfaces, prebuilt contracts, and testing tools to help Solidity developers build on-chain Wormhole integrations via smart contracts. You can use the [Wormhole TypeScript SDK](/docs/tools/typescript-sdk/get-started/){target=\_blank} for off-chain integrations without writing Solidity.

## Install the SDK

Use Foundry's [`forge`](https://getfoundry.sh/forge/){target=\_blank} to install the SDK using the following command:

```bash
forge install wormhole-foundation/wormhole-solidity-sdk
```

## Key Components

The following key components and features work together to make your on-chain Wormhole integration easier to build.

??? interface "Base contracts"

    Leverage base contracts to send and receive messages and tokens.

    - **[`Base.sol`](https://github.com/wormhole-foundation/wormhole-solidity-sdk/blob/b9e129e65d34827d92fceeed8c87d3ecdfc801d0/src/Base.sol){target=\_blank}**: Uses Wormhole interfaces to authorize and verify a registered sender.
    - **[`TokenBase.sol`](https://github.com/wormhole-foundation/wormhole-solidity-sdk/blob/b9e129e65d34827d92fceeed8c87d3ecdfc801d0/src/TokenBase.sol){target=\_blank}**: Uses `TokenReceiver` and `TokenSender` contracts to define functions for transferring tokens.
    - **[`CCTPBase.sol`](https://github.com/wormhole-foundation/wormhole-solidity-sdk/blob/b9e129e65d34827d92fceeed8c87d3ecdfc801d0/src/CCTPBase.sol){target=\_blank}**: Uses `CCTPSender` and `CCTPReceiver` contracts to define functions for transferring USDC.

??? interface "Interfaces"

    Use interfaces to ensure consistent interactions with the protocol regardless of the supported chain you use.

    - **[`ITokenBridge.sol`](https://github.com/wormhole-foundation/wormhole-solidity-sdk/blob/b9e129e65d34827d92fceeed8c87d3ecdfc801d0/src/interfaces/ITokenBridge.sol){target=\_blank}**: Defines key structs and functions for token attestation, wrapping and transferring tokens, monitoring transaction progress.
    - **[CCTP Interfaces](https://github.com/wormhole-foundation/wormhole-solidity-sdk/tree/b9e129e65d34827d92fceeed8c87d3ecdfc801d0/src/interfaces/CCTPInterfaces){target=\_blank}**: A set of interfaces for USDC transfers via CCTP for sending, relaying, and receiving messages and tokens.
    - **[`IWormholeReceiver.sol`](https://github.com/wormhole-foundation/wormhole/blob/main/relayer/ethereum/contracts/interfaces/relayer/IWormholeReceiver.sol){target=\_blank}**: Defines the `receiveWormholeMessages` function.
    - **[`IWormholeRelayer.sol`](https://github.com/wormhole-foundation/wormhole-solidity-sdk/blob/b9e129e65d34827d92fceeed8c87d3ecdfc801d0/src/interfaces/IWormholeRelayer.sol){target=\_blank}**: Defines key structs and functions to identify, send, and deliver messages and follow the progress of transactions.

??? interface "Constants"

    Auto-generated Solidity constants help avoid manual entry errors and ensure consistent delivery.

    - **[Wormhole Chain ID's](https://github.com/wormhole-foundation/wormhole-solidity-sdk/blob/b9e129e65d34827d92fceeed8c87d3ecdfc801d0/src/Chains.sol){target=\_blank}**: Generated list of Wormhole Chain ID's for supported chains.
    - **[Circle CCTP Domain IDs](https://github.com/wormhole-foundation/wormhole-solidity-sdk/blob/b9e129e65d34827d92fceeed8c87d3ecdfc801d0/src/CCTPAndTokenBase.sol){target=\_blank}**: Generated list of defined CCTP domain ID's to ensure USDC transfers use the correct domain for a given chain.
    - **[`chainConsts.ts`](https://github.com/wormhole-foundation/wormhole-solidity-sdk/blob/75ddcec06ffe9d62603d023357caa576c5ea101c/gen/chainConsts.ts){target=\_blank}**: Returns values to identify properties and contract addresses for each supported chain.

## Example Usage

The following demo illustrates the use of Wormhole Solidity SDK-based smart contracts to send testnet USDC between supported chains.

### Prerequisites
Before you begin, ensure you have the following:

- [Node.js and npm](https://docs.npmjs.com/downloading-and-installing-node-js-and-npm){target=\_blank} installed.
- [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/download/){target=\_blank} installed.
- [Foundry](https://getfoundry.sh/introduction/installation/){target=\_blank} installed.
- Testnet tokens for two supported chains. This example uses [testnet AVAX for Avalanche Fuji](https://core.app/tools/testnet-faucet/?subnet=c&token=c){target=\_blank} and [testnet CELO for Celo Alfajores](https://faucet.celo.org/alfajores){target=\_blank} and can be adapted to any supported chains.
- [USDC testnet tokens](https://faucet.circle.com/){target=\_blank} on your source chain for cross-chain transfer.

### Set Up a Project

Follow these steps to prepare your development environment:

1. Create a directory for your project, navigate into it, and install the Wormhole Solidity SDK: 

    ```bash
    mkdir solidity-token-transfer
    cd solidity-token-transfer
    forge install wormhole-foundation/wormhole-solidity-sdk
    ```

2. Install dependencies for use with your transfer script, including the Wormhole TypeScript SDK, and initiate a new Node.js project:

    ```bash
    npm init -y && npm install @wormhole-foundation/sdk ethers -D tsx typescript
    ```

### Create and Deploy Contracts

This project uses sender and receiver contracts to access the `WormholeRelayer` interface's [`TokenSender`](https://github.com/wormhole-foundation/wormhole-solidity-sdk/blob/baa085006586a43c42858d355e3ffb743b80d7a4/src/WormholeRelayer/TokenBase.sol#L24){target=\_blank} and [`TokenReceiver`](https://github.com/wormhole-foundation/wormhole-solidity-sdk/blob/baa085006586a43c42858d355e3ffb743b80d7a4/src/WormholeRelayer/TokenBase.sol#L147){target=\_blank} base classes to simplify sending tokens across chains.

Follow these steps to create and deploy your sender and receiver Solidity contracts:

1. Use the following example code to create `CrossChainSender.sol`:

    ```solidity title="CrossChainSender.sol"
    --8<-- "code/tools/solidity-sdk/get-started/solidity-sdk-1.sol"
    ```

    This contract extends `TokenSender`, gaining access to its functionality. It initializes the contract with the required addresses, calculates estimated transfer costs, defines transfer parameters, and initiates the transfer using the `sendTokenWithPayloadToEvm` function from `WormholeRelayer`.

2. Use the following example code to create `CrossChainReceiver.sol`:

    ```solidity title="CrossChainSender.sol"
    --8<-- "code/tools/solidity-sdk/get-started/solidity-sdk-2.sol"
    ```

    This contract extends `TokenReceiver`, gaining access to its functionality. It initializes the contract with the required addresses, receives the payload and tokens, verifies the transfer is from a registered sender, decodes the recipient address, and transfers the tokens to the recipient.

3. Deploy the contracts using your preferred deployment method. Make sure you deploy `CrossChainSender.sol` to your desired source chain and `CrossChainReceiver.sol` to the target chain. Save the deployed contract addresses for each contract. You will need them for your transfer script.

##  Use Contracts to Transfer USDC

1. Once your contracts are deployed, create a `transfer.ts` file to handle the multichain transfer logic:

    ```bash
    touch script/transfer.ts
    ```

2. Set up secure access to your wallets. This guide assumes you are loading your private key(s) from a secure keystore of your choice, such as a secrets manager or a CLI-based tool like [`cast wallet`](https://book.getfoundry.sh/reference/cast/cast-wallet){target=\_blank}.

    !!! warning
        If you use a `.env` file during development, add it to your `.gitignore` to exclude it from version control. Never commit private keys or mnemonics to your repository.

3. Open `transfer.ts` and add the following code:

    ```typescript title="transfer.ts"
    --8<-- "code/tools/solidity-sdk/get-started/solidity-sdk-3.ts"
    ```

    This script defines the sender and receiver contract addresses, fetches the necessary ABI information, creates a connected signer, converts decimals, calculates the estimated transfer cost, and initiates the token transfer.

3. Run the script using the following command:

    ```bash
    npx tsx script/transfer.ts
    ```

4. Follow the prompts in the terminal. This example uses Avalanche Fuji as the source chain, Celo Testnet as the target, [Avalanche Fuji testnet USDC](https://developers.circle.com/stablecoins/usdc-contract-addresses#testnet){target=\_blank}, and a developer wallet as the recipient address. You will see terminal output similar to the following:

    --8<-- "code/tools/solidity-sdk/get-started/terminal-output-01.html"

Congratulations! You've successfully created and deployed Wormhole Solidity SDK-based smart contracts and used them to send testnet USDC across blockchains. Consider the following options to build upon what you've accomplished.

## Next Steps

- **[Get Started with Messaging](/docs/products/messaging/get-started/)**: Send a message across blockchains using the Wormhole TypeScript SDK to eliminate smart contract development and auditing overhead.
